Section 1: Identify the network protocol involved in the incident

The two network protocols that were associated with this incident were the Domain Naming Service (DNS) and Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) protocols. Essentially, the DNS protocol was used to connect customers with the targeted webpage of yummyrecipesforme.com via relaying DNS requests utilizing host naming conventions, in order to retrieve the corresponding IP address associated with the destination URL of the website from their web server to retrieve complete DNS resolution followed by HTTP synchronization. Furthermore, the other protocol for which was involved in this security issue was the HTTP protocol, since customers had trouble requesting the destination address of the yummyrecipeforme’s webpage from its respective web server, which usually deals with HTTP correspondence. Primarily, the HTTP protocol is an application layer network protocol that operates in unison with other network protocols of the TCP/IP stack. Basically, it allows network devices to transmit information in visual manner via prompting the fetching of HyperText Markup Language (HTML)-oriented data packets or files, to be exchanged between interacting source computers and web servers. Notably, upon reviewing the tcpdump log file retrieved after running the tcpdump packet sniffer, while connecting to yummyrecipeforme.com website, I noticed that the HTTP protocol was used for data communications with their web server according to the log record. Thus, this evidence further confirmed that the malware was transmitted to these user machines by way of utilizing the HTTP protocol.

Section 2: Document the incident
In this security scenario, a number of customers reported to the websites helpdesk, that they have been encountering abnormal user requirements for accessing their recipe contents such as being asked to install and run a file containing new recipes and ever since, they noticed their computers exhibiting sluggish performance. In addition to that, the website administrator had later attempted to login into the web server, but unfortunately he was unable to gain access to the administrative account.

Responsively, the security analyst leveraged an IDE or sandbox, to safely access the website while not running the risk of compromising the company's organizational network. Next, the cybersecurity analyst administered the tcpdump network analyzer, to apprehend the data packets that were generated while 
attempting to communicate with the web server and engage with yummyrecipesforme.com’s website. Likewise, the security analyst was asked to upload and run a file in order to gain free access to recipes just as the customers had described prior, so the analyst authorized the download and proceeded to run it securely within the sandbox in order to assess the contents of the malicious software, but after their browser was diverted to a fraudulent website called (greatrecipesforme.com).

Subsequently, the analyst then proceeded to examine the generated tcpdump log file and discovered the source browser had originally fetched the IP address of the companies website. Upon HTTP synchronization with yummyrecipesforme.com and accepting the download of the exe. Relatively, the analyst noticed a drastic shift in data traffic around the same time, while the browser attempted to retrieve the IP address of the fake website's URL and the associative network traffic was then forwarded towards the fraudulent website’s  IP address.
Lastly, as the senior security expert inspected the relative source code for both websites as well as the downloaded files, they found that the threat actor had sabotaged the website by modifying it to be programmed to prompt end-users to unknowingly download malware for which posed as a meer browser update. Based on the fact that the website administrator reported being unable to gain access to their administrative account, we believe the threat actors leveraged a brute force attack to obtain the correct password to gain access to their respective account in order to alter the admin password. Unfortunately, downloading and running the malware prompted upon connecting with the company's website sabotaged the overall integrity of the source computers involved.

Section 3: Recommend one remediation for brute force attacks
One security hardening tactic that can be used as a strong remedy for deterring any potential risks associated with brute force attacks would be strengthening the individual security and password requirements within an organization's security standards and password policies, so that user passwords become more complex by nature as well as much harder to guess when faced with brute force methods. Additionally, it's also worth noting that this security solution could be coupled with further security hardening measures such as integrating MFA or 2FA authentications throughout organizational systems or establishing more frequently reset passwords as well. Notably, I also suggest that the company’s website ought to apply the HTTPS protocol instead of just HTTP, since any entity observing HTTP-based data transmissions can view them given that they are not encrypted like that of those utilizing HTTPS and doing so would ultimately help strengthen their overall security posture as whole by providing an additional layer of network security. 